In the last lecture we talked quite a bit about this text input and how to style and position it
but it's important for you to understand this flexbox system and the fact that you can create these
stylesheet objects to basically store them in constants
you can then use in your render function to assign your styles based on that object and properties in
that object.
The alternative would always be to use inline styles which quickly bloats your render function and makes
it harder to read and understand.
So with that we get a text input and we can type in it,
that's great.
We also now need a button because the goal ultimately of course is to allow us to save our value and
output it in a list below the text input.
So we need a button
and what better place to search for one than the official documentation.
If we go back there and scroll down to components because we want to add a UI component, we see hey there
is a button component and the button component actually is a pure convenience component,
I will also show you an alternative way of creating a clickable element. The button component is one of
the very few components in react native that actually will change its styling by default when run on
different platforms,
So on Android, it will look like an Android button and on iOS, it will look like an iOS button,
so that makes the button component really useful if you want to have a nice looking button out of the
box
and as always here in the documentation, you can learn how you may configure this button, as you see it
doesn't have that many props,
so let's use it.
First of all let's import it, as always
you've got to import all these react native components you want to use
so make sure to do that here too.
And then we want to add it, so let's add it below this text input and the button actually is a self-closing
element, the text on the button is assigned with the title property, here
I'll name this add.
Now if I just save the button like this, let's see what it looks like,
let's go back,
now we see that button below the text input
and if we click on it, you'll see we've got this little ripple effect here,
there's this highlighting effect on Android and on iOS,
we also got this click effect here. Still, maybe we want to have this button sit next to our place
and not below it,
so for that we actually need to position text input next to button.
Now you could think that you turn this into an inline block element but this wouldn't work because react
native only emulates css, it doesn't offer the same complexity and properties css offers
and you actually can't set elements to be inline block,
you actually only have the choice between creating a flex element or not showing it at all.
So you can set display to none or to flex block or inline block is not even supported,
so this solution won't work,
the solution instead is to create a nested view which also receive some flex styling, so that the overall
container covers the whole page and aligns elements from top to bottom with flex direction column which
is the default
but then the first element in there is another view which will also receive some flex styling to position
its child elements in a row because its child elements should be the text input and the button,
so let's add them to this view here.
Now this view of course needs to get a style,
so I will add a new one to my stylesheet in this object we pass to the create function, next to the
container property I'll add the input container property and the name is totally up to you,
I just name it input container because it actually holds my text input element.
There I will set flex to one so that it takes the full available space
and this will now only refer to the space in this container of course,
I'll set flex direction to row because I want to set from left to right and then I will also set justify content
which defines how to distribute the elements to space between, so that the first element sits on
the left and the second element sits on the right
and they have some space between. Now this is the input container property,
we can now assign this to this view by adding the style property and then referring to styles input
container.
Let's save this and
let's go back,
now we see some errors here and that's simply because I have a little typo here, this circumflex
which I accidentally added so
let's save this again.
Now it should reload, manually reload if the error doesn't go away
and we get this set up which doesn't look too great, does it?
So the text input is centered in the page and the button takes the full height here on Android, it does so
too on iOS as you can see if you click down there,
not really nice.
The reason for this simply is that the outer container of the outer view occupies the full height of
the page because of flex one and our nested container also has flex one,
so it also make sure to take up the full available space.
Let's see what changes if we comment this out,
if we remove flex one, that looks much better now.
The outer container still takes the entire page but the inner one doesn't,
you may ignore the warning by the way, we'll soon fix it.
So now this looks better but I'm not so happy with how the button looks like, it's really squeezed up
on the right here,
so let's fix this.
If we go back, we can see that on this text input, a while ago we set the width to 300,
now let's remove this and let's see how it then looks like. If we now go back, both is in the middle because
now both doesn't take that much space,
so the solution is to give both a width that works together nicely.
So let's add the input property maybe to style the input, let's maybe name it place input and let's add a place
button property to then style the button.
And now we can assign widths here, so we can assign a width and maybe a percentage width
makes sense here,
so let's give this input a percentage of 70%,
that has to be wrapped in quotation marks then
and for the button, I want to use 30
and now let's assign the two.
So here on the input, I'll add style and set this to styles place input and for the button, I'll also
add style and set this to styles place button.
Now let's save this and if we now reload the app, it looks nicer,
however I'm still not happy with the look.
One thing we can do is on the input container, so the container which wraps the input and the button, we
can also set align items to decide how the items should be distributed inside the container and set
this to center,
this now fixes the button which is stretched strangely from top to bottom, so
this now looks much better.
And we also want to ensure that on the input container, we also set a width of 100% so that this
takes the full available width it has, the difference to flex
one is that it will not also take the full space from top to bottom but here only from left to right,
so now we really got this in a way which looks nicer in my opinion.
With that we finally added a button and we played with some styling,
now let's also connect this button to an action in the next lecture and let's make sure that we actually
start adding our places.